# Top5

During the summer of 2017, I did an internship at Citrix Systems. While there, I also worked on my very first Android application with a group of guys named Charless Hennessey (our lead devloper for this project) (https://github.com/fr0hike/), and Joseph DiBartolo (the one who brought us together to work on this contract) (https://www.linkedin.com/in/jtdibartolo/). Due to the fact I had an internship and was committed to the work I was doing there, I had taken on a relatively small role for this project.

Since this Android application was a contract, I do not have the right the place the code we had created for our client. As a substitute, I will instead explain the general idea and concept of the tasks that needed to be done, and the role I played.

Top5 is the brainchild of AJ Enos and Charles Wildes IV. As we all know, cars, boats, generators and pretty much anything with a motor eventually runs into some problem that does not allow it to run as smoothly as when you first got it (maybe not run at all even). In order to get these fixed, people must go to a mechanic/technician due to lack of know-how, which can cost a staggering amount of money depending on what fix is needed. Through the app, this cost can be mitigated so long as the customer is willing to put in some work themselves. When one opens the app and signs in, they can select either technician or customer. If one chooses technician, they must put in their qualifications as to what they can help fix, set up payment information so that they can get paid, and then await a caller in need of their service. If one chooses a customer, they must set up their credit card information as well in order so for a technician to get paid for the time they spend with a customer on their problem. Once a customer, a person can select the item they need help fixing (boat, car, generator etc.), and from there can pick manufacturer, year (ex. 1997 Honda Civic) and anything else that relates to a particular item. Once this is completed, a technician fitting the needs of the customer is found, a video chat between the customer and proper technician is set up. From here, the technicians and customer progress as they should based on the sitation.

In order to complete this project, the team worked through GitHub and Android Studio. To start, the login page was created. I mainly handled login requirements and handling (with some cleanup by Charles Hennessey). An admittedly small task, but not the main task I was assigned with throughout the project. Once this portion of the coding was done, the UI became much more involved. As a result, there was a greater likelihood that a certain action could lead to something that was not expected. It was at this point that I was assigned to handle all UI instrumentation testing and JUnit testing for the application. Testing would help me with the functionality of what my partners had written up, and taught me where to find certian elements whehter they be in XML files or within java files. As the contract was coming to a close, there was (obviously) less coding that had to be done, which meant less testing was needed as well. As a result, I was given the task of code refactoring for the entire project while still handling any tests that were needed as they came up. This refactoring task is how I learned most of the code that my two partners had written. A neccesity since it would lead to the best possible refactoring. Through the reading and understanding of their code, I was able to understand on a deeper level the functionality and back end services being provided with the database system (utilizing Firebase), injections (utilizing Dagger), video chat (utilizing Twilio video chat services) and more. 

In all, the project took about 3 months to complete, and was graciously accepted by the client. Throughout the entire process, the team used slack to communicate. A neccesity considering I was in Florida at the time and my two partners were in separate states as well. On top of the communication between us, we also consistently spoke to our clients to keep them updated on the current going-ons of the project, and to gauge their thoughts and comments for where the app was currently at for the time we presented it to them. 

While I played a small role within this project, it was a great experience, and I had a great time working with everyone that was involved. In the future, I hope to take on a bigger role for any future android application project I may be a part of. 

Special thanks to Charles Hennessey for helping me understand what goes into an Android application since I was completely new at the time. 

Special thanks to Joseph (Tyler) DiBartolo for allowing me to be a part of this project.
